# Fungal Microbiome Data Set
This data set was generated from fungal microbiome of blueberry bushes. This data set was provided by Sandra Nnadi*. Using RNAseq data from collected field samples abundances of each fungal species was created based on the ordered taxonomic units (OTU). An OTU the classification system that is used for fungal species because they are only characterized down to the genus level. OTU's are based on the similarity of RNAseq data against a database of previously identified OTU's. 

The edges were created using the abundance data collected from the OTU analysis. Each edge represents the linear correlation between two OTU's abundance. A correlation matrix was generated from these linear correlations. This was the basis for the edges. An r value of 0.8 was chosen arbitrarily as the threshold for correlation since 0.8 is a high threshold for correlation. Using this threshold an adjacency matrix was generated giving r values above the threshold a 1 (edge present) and values below the threshold a 0 (edge not present). All r values that were exactly 1 were also given a zero as this represented the self correlation of an OTU. This was verified by checking the diagonal of the adjacency matrix. The diagonal in fact consisted of only 1's so they were all changed to 0 to avoid self loops on every point. The rest of the adjacency matrix was tested for perfect correlations, r value of 1, and was found that there were no others. If perhaps there were other perfect correlations in the adjacency matrix I would not trust them as a perfect correlation is almost never found in nature. Perfect correlations could have resulted from a low sample size, n = 2, which will always generate an r value of 1 since you can always draw a prefect line between two points.

Using the adjacency matrix a preliminary graph was generated. Since the adjacency matrix contained many points that did not show correlations there were many vertices that were disconnected. These vertices were removed since they did not add relavent information to the graph. The result was the final graph representation of the correlations in the fungal microbiome. The names of the OTU's were added as vertex attributes. 

Data was provided by the Harris Lab at the University of Vermont

Edge list, an vertices's generated using R studio. 

Any questions may be directed to myself, David Green: dgreen2@uvm.edu
